Internet, as “a theater of visibility”, is really where it starts to cultivate a virtual place. The three projects developed by Eva and Franco Mattes, trace the development of digital identity from heightened transparency to careful performance. While Life Sharing demonstrates a complete transparent information distribution at the early stage of the Internet, American Idol Audition Training Blog and Scandalishious expresses a more carefully constructed identity that is shaped by web 2.0. The latter two projects pretty resemble how we use Internet nowadays. Yet each platform has its own unique context that shapes how we present ourselves. Just like the blog example, the feedback loop makes blog unique because of the continuous identity construction process happened between the blogger and the audience. Life Sharing, instead, focuses less on contextual interaction and more on personal sharing.

While Eva and Franco Mattes’ projects cultivate internet as a platform for sharing and connection, Cao Fei’s Second Life expands internet spatiality by creating a virtual city that involves people as “residents” in it. There are two things worth noticing. First, the residents became part of the media image rather than watchers. Second, the city shares much commonality with the real city, as described by Cao Fei that this project is a “reflection of China’s urban and cultural explosion”. Since context matters for what it means to be living in internet, those two elements really bring the users into another world of connection. Interesting enough, the RMB city could function as a real-estate agency and real cash payments are made, blurring the line between virtuality and reality. What role are we playing and what’s the impact we’ve made in the RMB city? Such question not only gives rise to reflection on industrialization and consumerism, but also questioning of our digital identity.
