The internet creates a virtual world in which we seem to be liberated. Yet the virtual could also be as powerful as the real world, causing real psychological damage. The article reminds me of one time when I was in junior high school, I hurt one net friend so deeply that he never talked to me thereafter. The net friend, let’s call him L here, gave me an online impression that he was funny and able to take jokes. I was a shy person in real world, but the online chat gave me courage to become a naughty girl who enjoyed making fun of others. I became outspoken and careless of how my words affected others. And one time, I couldn’t remember the details, but I said a joke that offended L deeply, one that reopened his “old wounds” and made him serious and angry. I was shocked by his reaction as he always appeared a funny person to me. I could deeply feel that I hurt him, and I felt extremely guilty. It was that moment that I became conscious that the online subject I’m talking to is a real person with complicated emotions and self-esteem. 

Just as the philosopher Brian Massumi says, “the virtual cannot be separated from the question of perception.” Even if we all started with deception and deemed net people to be simply a virtual character, the interaction and identity we constructed online could be a representation of true selves that connects directly to our presence in real world. That’s the chains or restrictions of the seemingly liberating virtual world. However virtual it is, human feelings and esteem are still bottom lines for the deception. That’s why people being raped online feel offended in their biological body too.

The emotional AI AGENS mentioned at the end proposes another interesting question as to what constitutes online selves and blurred the line between human and nonhuman. The fact that I hurt the net friend L was probably because I didn’t deem him as “human” at that moment (but rather a funny character). Virtual infidelity, as it relates to humans’ emotion and esteem, is no less sensitive than real world.
