The article challenges my impression of the web as a content-provider. CAE identified web, or cyberspace, as an engine for global movement of capital and power. Zapatista political movement through the web exemplified such concept. The efficient connection and communication between activists around the globe made the web a central medium for political revolution. The virtual sit-in landscape developed by FloodNet, created an “electronic civil obedience” atmosphere while keeping the traditional principles. Under such background, the web provided a “context” that was analogous to political revolution. 

Beginning in late 1990s, the web context had become increasingly commercialized, which was said to take “corporate turns”. The new internet art in such context, was less direct opposition and more involved sarcastic participation in the corporate culture.  The Samsung is an interesting example. As an ambitious company that borrows a lot of money from IMF for global expansion, Samsung put huge pressure on South Korea people. Farmers even committed suicide as resistance. On the other hand, Samsung permeate South Korea people’s life in a crazy way that artists like YHCHI displayed Samsung as national hero or even a god like thing. YHCHI’s Samsung project demonstrates South Korean’s attachment to Samsung in an absurd way that even expect Samsung to “get over being dead”. With the huge “Samsung” characters styled in red and the animation coinciding with the jazz rhythm repeatedly, the project emphasizes Samsung as a salvation to an aimless being. While revealing the power of South Korean chaebols, the artwork also discourages interaction. It feels as if the user keeps being infused with the Samsung thing, and the sentences flow fast in a way that doesn’t give people time to think about it. Such experience is a perfect analogy to how people experienced Samsung--- that is, you are being controlled by it without noticing. Probably that’s the “ironic ambiguity” behind the project.
