The online intimacy reminds me of the sociology term "symbolic interaction", which indicates that people make sense of the world through symbols that are manifested in communication. Online interaction is very much like that, with symbols like clicks, likes and comments resembling real-world communication. The increasing authenticity and complexity naturalize it even more, in a way that people regard social web as an extension of themselves.

Yet Hirsch’s work displays another aspect of the online intimacy--- the different context from reality could engender identity anxiety in real world. “Context is king,” such idea perfectly describes how we engage and interact online and offline. Jacoby acknowledges the importance of context in developing relationship, yet she didn’t expect internet nowadays to be sophisticated enough to develop such context. Eva and Franco Mattes’s work reveals how context structures online behavior. From complete transparency and individual sharing to feedback loop between the performer and the audience, context formulates how we perform our identity online and how we react to other constructed identities.

Like identities, relationships also distribute across the network. Yet the massive data record and the fact that digital society values emergence over thoughts complicates and sensitizes online intimacy. The digital world is noisy. The low cost of typing encourages expression with little care. As a result, ironically, the more we’re closely bound up with the Internet, the more we’ll be hurt by it. The bad memories would linger on the internet record. Cyber-violence could torture you throughout the life as the bad comments, some with little care and emotional aggression, would be stored and remained. A call for slow internet is a resistance to the digital impulse. But I think it could hardly work unless the cost of expression rises so that everyone needs to take care of their words.
 
